#### Linear Algebra
>[!rmk|*] Important note on the Determinant
>We have not yet defined the determinant! DO NOT USE IT TO SOLVE ANY EIGENVALUE OR EIGENVECTOR PROBLEMS.
>So some trivial results will not be so trivial anymore.
>Using the determinant, it is easy to show that the eigenvalues for the transpose of a matrix is equal to the eigenvalues of the original matrix. But now, without it, we must use dual maps.

Now let us get on with the contents:
Let $V$ be a [[Finite-Dimensional Vector Space|Finite-Dimensional]] $\mathbb{F}$ [[Vector Space]] and let $T \in \mathcal L (V)$. Then the following facts hold.
>[!rmk|1] 
>If $\lambda \in \mathbb{F}$ is an [[Eigenvalue]] of $T$, then $\lambda^m$ is an eigenvalue of $T^m$ for any $m \in \mathbb{Z}_{\ge1}$, with the same [[Eigenvector]]. If $0 \ne v \in V$ is the eigenvector of $T$, then: $$T^mv = T^{m-1}(tv) = T^{m-1}\lambda v = \lambda T^{m-2} (Tv) \dots$$

>[!rmk|2]
>$c \lambda$ is an eigenvalue of $cT$ for $c \in \mathbb{F}$, and the corresponding eigenvector is the same.
>`\begin{proof}`  $$(cT)v = c(Tv) = (c \lambda)v$$ `\end{proof}`

>[!rmk|3]
>If $\lambda_1 \; \land \; \lambda_2$ are eigenvalues of $T_1 \; \land \; T_2$ with **the same eigenvector** $v$, then $\lambda_1 + \lambda_2$ is an eigenvalue of $T_1 + T_2$.
>`\begin{proof}` $$(T_1+T_2) v = T_1v + T_2v = \lambda_1v + \lambda_2v = (\lambda_1 +\lambda_2)v$$`\end{proof}` 

>[!rmk|4]
>$h \in \mathcal P(\mathbb{F})$, then $h(T) = h(\lambda)v$.

>[!rmk|5]
>Suppose $T$ is an [[Invertible Linear Maps|Invertible Linear Map]], then $\frac{1}{\lambda}$ is an eigenvalue of $T^{-1}$ $\iff$ $\lambda$ is an eigenvalue of $T$.  
>
>`\begin{proof}` Since $T$ is invertible, we know that $\lambda \ne 0$, then: $$Tv = \lambda v \implies T^{-1}Tv = T^{-1}\lambda v \implies v = \lambda T^{-1}v \implies \frac{1}{\lambda}v = T^{-1}v$$
> `\end{proof}`

>[!rmk|6]
>$(T^{-1} + T)v = (\lambda ^{-1} + \lambda)v$

>[!proposition|1]
>Let $V$ be [[Finite-Dimensional Vector Space|Finite-Dimensional]] $\mathbb{F}$ [[Vector Space]] and $T \in \mathcal L (V)$. Then the roots of the minimal polynomial of $T$ are the [[Eigenvalue|Eigenvalues]] of $T$. In particular, if $\mathbb{F} = \mathbb C$, the minimal polynomial of $T$ can be written as: $$(z-\lambda_1)(z-\lambda_2)\dots(z-\lambda_m)$$where $\lambda_1, \lambda_2, \dots, \lambda_m$ are eigenvalues of $T$. (Not necessarily distinct)
>
>In other words, $\lambda$ is an eigenvalue of $T$ $\iff$ $\lambda$ is a root of $p(T)$ where $p$ is the minimal polynomial.
>>[!claim|*]- Proof
>>`\begin{proof}` We must show inclusion both ways:
>>$\implies$:Suppose that $\lambda$ is an eigenvalue of $T$. Let $0 \ne v \in V$ be the the corresponding eigenvector. Let $p$ denote the minimal polynomial of $T$, then: $$p(T)v = p(\lambda)v$$Now $p(T) = 0$, then $p(T)v = 0$ hence $p (\lambda) v =0$ and since $v \ne 0$, $p(\lambda) = 0$. Thus $\lambda$ is a root of $p$.
>>
>>$\impliedby$: Suppose that $\lambda$ is a root of $p$. Then: $$p(z) = (z- \lambda) \cdot q(z) \implies deg(q) = deg(p) - 1$$Now : $$p(T) = (T - \lambda I) q(T) = 0$$Note that $q(T) \ne 0$ (because $p$ is the minimal polynomial) and so $\exists \: 0 \ne v \in V$ such that $q(T)v \ne 0$. Hence $p(T)v = 0 = (T-I \lambda)(q(T)v) = 0$. This implies that $0 \ne q(T)v \in \text{null}(T- \lambda I)$ Hence $T-\lambda I$ is not injective and so $\lambda$ is an eigenvalue of $T$.  
>> `\end{proof}`

>[!rmk|*] Things to recall
>1. Let $T \in \mathcal L (V)$ and $v$ be finite-dim complex vector space. Then $T$ has an eigenvalue.
>2. The above statement is not true for finite-dim $\mathbb{R}$ vector spaces. For example, let $V = \mathbb{R}^2: T(x,y) = (-y,x)$. Then the eigenvalues are $\pm i \not\in \mathbb{R}$.

>[!proposition|2]
>Any operator $T \in \mathcal L (V)$ with $V$ being a [[Finite-Dimensional Vector Space|Finite-Dimensional]] [[Vector Space]] with $\text{dim}(V) = 2n+1 \; \; : n \in \mathbb{N}$ (odd dimension) has an eigenvalue. (Which also holds for $\mathbb{R}$).

>[!exm|1]
>Let $V$ be finite-dimensional [[Vector Space|V.S]]: $T \in \mathcal L (V)$ and $\alpha \in \mathbb{F}$. Denote the minimal polynomial of $T$ by $p$. Then the minimal polynomial of $T- \alpha I$ is obtained by $p(z+ \alpha)$ (shifted version of $p$).
>>[!claim|*]- Proof
>>`\begin{proof}` $$q(T- \alpha I) = p(T- \alpha I + \alpha I) = p(T) = 0$$This implies that $q$ is the multiple of the minimal polynomial of $T- \alpha I$. But now we need to show $p$ is the minimal polynomial. 
>>
>>Denote the minimal polynomial of $T- \lambda I$ by $h$. Then: $$q(z) = h(z)s(z)$$But we know $q(z) = p(z+x)$. Since by assumptions, $h$ is the minimal polynomial, then $h(T - \alpha I) = 0$. Thus $h(z - \alpha)$ will be the minimal for $T$. One can see that if $deg(h) < deg(q) = deg(p)$ then $h(z- \alpha)$ will be monic and of degree less than $p$ which is impossible because $p$ is the minimal polynomial. Then, $s = 1$.
> `\end{proof}`

>[!exm|2]
>For $c \in \mathbb{F}/\{0\}$, we need to show that the minimal polynomial of $cT$ is given by: $$q(z)=c^{deg(p)}p \left(  \frac{1}{c}z \right) $$
>Note that by construction, $q$ is monic, $q(cT) = c^{deg(p)}p(\frac{1}{c}T) = c^{deg(p)}(0) = 0$.
>
>Now let us show that $h$ is the minimal polynomial of $cT$.
>>[!claim|*]- Proof
>>`\begin{proof}` 
>>Suppose $h$ is the minimal polynomial of $cT$. Then: $$\frac{1}{c^{deg(p)}}h(cz)$$is monic and vanishes at $T$ since $p$ is the minimal polynomial of $T$: $$p(z) = \frac{1}{c^{deg(p)}}h(cz)$$hence $q = h$ by uniqueness.
>>Another way would be: $$q(z) = c^{deg(p)} \cdot p(\frac{1}{c}z = c^{deg(p)} \cdot \frac{1}{^{deg(p)}}h(c \frac{1}{c} z) = h(z)$$
> `\end{proof}`

>[!example|3]
>Consider $\mathbb{F}^n$: $T(x_,1, \dots, x_n) = (x_1, \dots, nx_n)$. Let us find the eigenvalues of $T$.
>>[!claim|*]- Solution
>>We need to find $\lambda \in \mathbb{F}$ and $(a_1, \dots, a_n) \ne (0,\dots, 0) \in \mathbb{F}^n$ such that: $$(a_1, \dots, na_n) = (\lambda a_1, \dots, \lambda a_n)$$We get $ja_j = \lambda a_j$.
>>Something something, he was too fast for me.

