>[!exercise|4] 
>In 10 years, South Pacific Inc. will be investing $200,000 USD either in the Marshall Islands or in Fiji. The exchange rate between US Dollars (used in the Marshall Islands) and Fijian Dollars is fixed at $2 FJD = $1 USD. Assume that the 2 currencies can be exchanged at no cost.
>
>If the $200,000 is invested in the Marshall Islands, each dollar is expected to return $0.30 USD per year for the following 5 years. If the $200,000 is converted to FJD and invested, each Fijian dollar is expected to return $0.24 FJD per year for 7 years. The Marshall Islands experiences an average inflation rate of 4%, while Fiji averages 2% in inflation. If the real MARR for South Pacific Inc. is 10%, which investment is preferred? How much should South Pacific set aside now (in their bank account at the MARR until it is deployed in the investment) to ensure that it has enough money to make the investment in 10 years?
>
>_(Hint: South Pacific's home country can be ignored in answering this question)_

>[!claim|*] Solution to part A
>Notice that the investment will happen in $10$ years. Thus, in a cash flow diagram, the whole problem would start at year $10$ and **not** year $0$. **HOWEVER**, when evaluating the investment, it will only be evaluated starting from the initial investment as in the first $10$ years, we are not actually doing anything (so how could there be an annual worth?). From here, there are $3$ strategies we can do to compare these projects:
>1. $AW$ method (has the advantage of not needing repeated lives method)
>2. Repeated lives to $PW$ (very tedious).
>3. IRR analysis (a modest choice, but for our case, $AW$ is better).
>
>We will go with the $AW$ method as it is the easiest. Now real dollars are used when we do not know for sure what the return or cost will be in the future as we will estimate it based off of present factors. Actual dollars are used when we are sure what we will invest and the returns we will get. Based of this, the cost of $\$200\:000$ and the returns will **all** be actual dollars. Because of this, the $\text{MARR}_{\text{actual}}$ needs to be found: $$\begin{array}{ccc}  \text{MARR}_{\text{actual Marshall Island}} = 0.1 +0.04+(0.1 \times 0.04) = 0.144 = 14.4\% \\ \text{MARR}_{\text{actual Fiji}} = 0.1 +0.02+(0.1 \times 0.02) = 0.122 = 12.2\% \end{array}$$
>
>**Marshall Islands**:
>The return on the initial investment (for the period of $5$ years following the investment) is $\$60\:000/\text{y}$. From this, the annual worth is trivially given by: $$AW_M = -200\:000 (A/P,14.4\%,5)+60\:000 = \$1180 \; \text{USD}$$
>
>**Fiji**:
>Here the calculations will be done in FJD turning only the final answer to USD for comparison purposes. With an initial investment of $\$400\:000$ FJD, we get yearly returns of $\$96\:000$ FJD. The annual worth is trivially given by: $$AW_F = \left[  -400\:000(A/P,12.2\%,7)+96\:000 \right] \times \frac{1 \; \text{USD}}{2 \; \text{FJD}} = \$3900 \; \text{USD} $$
>
>In all, we see the investing in Fiji will give the best annual returns.
>

>[!claim|*] Solution to part B
>Here we need to determine how much South Pacific should set aside now to ensure that it has enough money to make the investment in $10$ years. 
>
>Since the home country of South Pacific can be ignored, I will use the real MARR given to us to find the answer. This answer is given by $I$ in: $$I = 200\:000 (P/F,0.1,10) = \$77\:100 \; \text{USD}$$
>Thus South Pacific should set aside $\$77\:100$ USD now to ensure that it has enough money to make the investment in $10$ years. 
