>[!rmk|*] Puzzle
>How many holes does a straw have?
>How many holes does a standard T-shirt have?
>Solution is given next year in Topology.

>[!theorem|1] Absolutely Spamming Sequences Everywhere
>Let $A \subseteq \mathbb{R}^d, f: A \rightarrow \mathbb{R}^m, c \in A$. $f$ is continuous at $c \iff$ for every [[Sequences|Sequence]] $x_n \in A$ with $x_n \rightarrow c$, we have $f(x_n) \rightarrow f(x)$ as $n \rightarrow \infty$. 
>>[!claim|*]- Proof
>>`\begin{proof}` We show implications both ways.
>>
>>$\implies$: Since $f: A \rightarrow \mathbb{R}^m$ is continuous at $c$, $\forall \: \epsilon > 0, \exists \: \delta > 0$ such that when $x \in B_\delta (c)$, we have $f(x) \in B_\epsilon (f(c))$. Let $x_n \in A$ converging to $c$. Then $\exists \: N: \forall n \ge N, x_n \in B_\delta (c)$. Since $x_n \in B_\delta (c)$, we have $f(x_n) \in B_\epsilon (f(c)) \forall \: n \ge N$. Thus $f(x_n) \rightarrow f(c)$.
>>
>>$\impliedby$: (Contrapositive) If $f$ is not continuous at $c$, then $\exists x_n \in A$ with $x_n \rightarrow c$ but $\lim_{n \rightarrow \infty} f(x_n) \ne f(c)$. Since $f$ is not continuous at $c$, $\exists \: \epsilon >0$ so that $\forall \: \delta > 0, \; \exists x \in B_\delta (c)$ with $f(x) \not\in B_\epsilon (f(c))$. 
>>Let $x_1 \in B_1(c)$ such that $f(x_1) \not\in B_\epsilon (f(c))$. For each $n$, let $x_n \in B_{\frac{1}{n}}(c)$ so that $f(x_n) \not\in B_\epsilon (f(c))$. Which we can do. Clearly $x_n \rightarrow c$ but $\lim_{n \rightarrow \infty} f(x_n) \ne f(c)$.
>> `\end{proof}`

>[!def|1] Sequential Compactness (For any Topological Space)
>A set $A$ is sequentially compact if every [[Sequences|Sequence]] contained in $A$ has a [[Subsequences|Subsequence]] that converges to a limit in $A$.

>[!example|*]- Determine whether the following are Sequentially Compact
>1. $A = (0,1)$
>	- Consider $x_n = \frac{1}{n}$ and all of its subsequences. They all converges to $0$ hence not Sequentially Compact.
>2. $B = \{\frac{1}{k}: k \in \mathbb{N}_+\} \cup \{0\}$
>	- It is sequentially compact as this set has $1$ cluster point $0$.
>3. $C = \mathbb{N}$. 
>	- Take $x_n = n$, then $x_n \rightarrow \infty$ and all subsequences also go to infinity. Hence it is not sequentially compact.

>[!theorem|2] Closed and Bounded sets are Sequentially Compact
>Let $A \subseteq \mathbb{R}^d$. Then: $$A \: \text{is Sequentially Compact} \iff A \: \text{is Closed and Bounded}$$
>>[!claim|*]- Proof
>>`\begin{proof}`  We show implications both ways. Let us start with the reverse implication.
>>
>>$\impliedby$: Let $x_n \subseteq A$, $x_n$ is bounded, then by the [[Bolzano-Weierstrass Theorem]], $x_n$ has a convergent subsequence $x_{n_k}$. Since $x_{n_k} \subseteq A$ and $A$ is closed, then $\lim_{k \rightarrow \infty} x_{n_k} \in A$. 
>>
>>$\implies$: (Contradiction) Suppose $A$ is sequentially compact but that $A$ is not bounded. Then $\forall \: n \in \mathbb{N}, \exists \: x_n \in A: \rho (0,x_n) > n$. This sequence is unbounded, and has no convergent subsequences, which contradicts the definition of Sequential Compactness (as no subsequence of $x_n$ converges). Thus $A$ must be bounded.
>>Now suppose $A$ is sequentially compact but that $A$ is not closed. Then $\exists \: x \in A’$ with $x \in A^c$. Since $x$ is a [[Cluster Points|Limit Point]] of $A$, $\exists \: x_n \subseteq A$ with $x_n \rightarrow x \not\in A$. Hence all [[Subsequences]] of $x_n$ converge to $x$ by definition of [[Converging Sequences]]. But this contradicts the definition of sequential compactness (as the subsequences converge to a limit $x$ is not contained in $A$).
>>`\end{proof}`

>[!def|*] Open Cover
>Let $(X,\mathcal T)$ be a [[Topology|Topological Space]] and $A \subseteq X$. An open cover of $A$, $\mathcal U$ is: $$\mathcal U = \{\mathcal U_\alpha\}\subseteq \mathcal T$$with $A \subseteq \cup_\alpha \mathcal U_\alpha$.

>[!def|*] Subcover
>$\tilde{\mathcal U}$ is a subcover of $\mathcal U$ if $\tilde{\mathcal U} \subseteq \mathcal U$ and $\tilde{\mathcal U}$ is an open cover of $A$.

>[!exm|*]
>Let $A = (0,1)$. Then: $$\mathcal U = \{\left(  -\frac{1}{2}, \frac{1}{2} \right), \left(  0, \frac{3}{4} \right) , \left(  \frac{1}{4}, \frac{5}{4} \right)  \}$$
>There was something else, I did not have time to put it :(



