
>[!lemma|1] Swapping the order of the Integrals and the Absolute Values
>Let $A = [a,b]$ (closed interval) and $f: A \rightarrow \mathbb{R}$ s.t $\int_a^b f(x)\; dx$ exists. Then: $$\left| \int_a^b f(x) \; dx \right| \le \int_a^b |f(x)| \;dx $$
>>[!claim|*]- Proof
>>Define: $$f_+(x) = \begin{cases} f(x) & f(x) > 0\\ 0 &f(x) \le 0  \end{cases}$$And: $$f_-(x) = \begin{cases} 0 & f(x) \ge 0\\ -f(x) & f(x) < 0 \end{cases}$$Then both of these functions will be greater than $0$. This allows us to nicely express the absolute values of the function. Thus, we note:
>>- $f(x) = f_+(x) - f_-(x)$
>>- $|f(x)| = f_+(x) + f_(x)$
>>
>>With this in mind, we can do the following: $$\left| \int_a^b f(x) dx \right| = \left| \int_a^b f_+(x)-f_-(x) dx \right|  $$Giving: $$\left| \int_a^b f_+(x) dx - \int_a^b f_-(x) dx \right|  $$Which, by the [[Triangle Inequality]], nets us: $$\le \left|  \int_a^b f_+(x) dx \right| + \left| \int_a^b f_-(x) dx \right| $$(The negative value was cancelled by the absolute value) We note that $\int_a^b f_+(x) \ge 0 \; \land \; \int_a^b f_-(x) dx \ge 0$, hence: $$\left| \int_a^b f(x) dx \right| \le \int_a^b f_+(x) dx + \int_a^b f_-(x) dx$$Which gives us: $$\left| \int_a^b f(x) dx \right| \le \int_a^b|f(x)| \;dx$$

With this, we can prove the following:

>[!theorem|1] Interchanging limits and Integrals
>Let $A = [a,b]$ and $f_n$ be a sequence of functions on $A$ so that $\int_a^b f_n(x)\;dx$ is defined $\forall n$. If $\exists \; f:A \rightarrow \mathbb{R}$ such that $f_n \rightarrow f$ uniformly, then: $$\lim_{n \rightarrow \infty} \int_a^b f_n(x) \; dx = \int_a^b f(x) \; dx$$
>>[!claim|*]- Proof
>>Let $\epsilon >0$, we are trying to show that: $$\exists \:n \in \mathbb{N}: \left| \int_a^b f_n(x) \; dx - \int_a^b f(x) \; dx \right| < \epsilon \; \; \; \forall \: n \ge N  $$Since $f_n \rightarrow f$ converges uniformly. Then $\exists \: N$ so that: $$|f_n(x) - f(x)| < \frac{\epsilon}{2(b-a)} \; \; \; \forall \: n \ge N \; \land \; \forall \: x \in A$$Then: $$\left| \int_a^b f_n(x) - f(x) \; dx \right| \le \int_a^b |f_n(x) - f(x)| \; dx$$Which holds by Lemma $1$. Now for $n \ge N$, we have: $$\int_a^b|f_n(x) - f(x)| \; dx \le \int_a^b \frac{\epsilon}{2(b-a)} \; dx = \frac{\epsilon (\bcancel{b-a})}{2(\bcancel{b-a})} < \epsilon$$Which is what we wanted to show.

>[!rmk|*] A quick Recap
>Uniform Convergence:
>1. Preserves Continuity;
>2. Preserves Boundedness;
>3. Allows for the interchanging of limits and integrals.

>[!exm|1] Uniform Convergence it not enough for limits and derivatives
>Consider: $$f_n(x) = \frac{x}{1+n^2x^2}$$As we take $n \rightarrow \infty$, it looks like a straight line (graph it on Desmos!). Now, using calculus, we can show that: $$\frac{df_n}{dx} = \frac{1-n^2x^2}{1+n^2x^2}$$And that it has critical points at $x = \pm \frac{1}{n}$. (Verify max and min are $\pm \frac{1}{2n}$). With that fact, it is clear that: $$\text{sup}\{|f_n(x)| : x \in \mathbb{R}\} = \frac{1}{2n}$$and we could show $f_n \rightarrow f = 0$ uniformly. On the other hand, we have: $$\frac{df_n}{dx}(0) = 1 \; \; \; \forall n$$We can also show that: $$\frac{df_n}{dx}(x) \rightarrow 0 \; \; \; \forall x \ne 0$$The point of everything we just did is to see: $$\lim_{n \rightarrow \infty} \frac{df_n}{dx}(x) = \begin{cases} 1 &x =0\\ 0 & x \ne 0 \end{cases}$$But: $$\frac{d}{dx} \lim_{n \rightarrow \infty} f_n(x) = \frac{d}{dx}f(x) = 0$$Which are not exactly equal. Then we need more than uniform convergence to interchange limits and derivatives.

>[!def|*] Continuous of Order $k$
>Let $f: A \rightarrow \mathbb{R}$, we say $f$ is $C^k$ if: $$\frac{d^kf}{dx} \; \text{exists and is continuous}$$Write $f \in C^k(A; \mathbb{R})$ (where $A$ is the domain and $\mathbb{R}$ is the range).

This is the key for interchanging limits and derivatives.

>[!theorem|2] 
>Let $A = [a,b]$ and $f_n$ be a sequence of $C^1$ functions. If $\exists \; g : A \rightarrow \mathbb{R}$ so that $\frac{df_n}{dx} \rightarrow g$ converges uniformly and $\lim_{n \rightarrow \infty} f_n(c)$ exists for some $c \in [a,b]$, then $\exists \: f: A \rightarrow \mathbb{R}$ so that $f_n \rightarrow f$ converges uniformly and: $$\lim_{n \rightarrow \infty} \frac{df_n}{dx} = \frac{df}{dx} = g$$
>Note: This requirement $\lim_{n \rightarrow \infty} f_n(c)$ is a little weird. One might think we could get away without this. But we can’t and showing this is a QUIZ QUESTION. (Find a sequence of functions as a counterexample).
>>[!claim|*] Proof
>>Let: $$f(x) = \lim_{n \rightarrow \infty} f_n(a) + \int_a^x g(t) \; dt$$We will show that this function is well-defined and that it satisfies the theorem. Hence we do the following;
>> 1. $f(x)$ exists.
>> 2. $f_n \rightarrow f$ converges uniformly.
>> 3. $\frac{df}{dx} = g(x)$. 
>> 
>> **Part 1**:
>> Since $f_n \in C^1(A; \mathbb{R})$, we must have that $\frac{df_n}{dx}$ is continuous and since $\frac{df_n}{dx} \rightarrow g$ converges uniformly, $g$ is continuous. $\therefore$ $\int_a^x g(t) \; dt$ exists$\forall \: x \in A$. By the [[Fundamental Theorem of Calculus]]: $$\int_a^c\frac{df_n}{dx}(x) \; dx = f_n(c) - f_n(a)$$We get: $$\lim_{n \rightarrow \infty} f_n(a) = \lim_{n \rightarrow \infty} \left(  - \int_a^c \frac{df_n}{dx}(x) \; dx + f_n(c) \right) $$Distributing the limit: $$\lim_{n \rightarrow \infty} \left(  - \int_a^c \frac{df_n}{dx} \; dx \right)  + \lim_{n \rightarrow \infty} f_n(c)$$Where the first limit is $-\int_a^c g(x) \; dx$ and the second part exists by assumption.
>> TO finish next class






