The pre-class part had $$\sum_{j=0}^\infty \frac{1}{2^j}=1 + \frac{1}{2} + \frac{1}{4} + \dots = 2$$Then we can call the sum S: $$S = 1 + \frac{1}{2}(1+\frac{1}{2}+\dots)$$
We notice the term inside the parenthesis is $S$: $$S = 1+ \frac{1}{2}S$$Which clearly gives $S$ = 2.

However, now we consider: $$\sum_{j=0}^\infty (-1)^j = 1-1+1-1+1-\dots$$Doing our same strategy, we get different possible values of $S$:
- $S = \frac{1}{2}$
- $S = 0$
- $S = 1$
But then what breaks between the two series? 

Consider: $$A =\sum_{j=0}^\infty \frac{(-1)^{j+1}}{j} = 1 - \frac{1}{2} + \frac{1}{3} - \dots =ln(2)$$We can rearrange the terms in the following way: $$L = 1+\frac{1}{3}-\frac{1}{2} + \frac{1}{5} + \dots$$Note that this sequence of numbers contains the same numbers as the sum A. But we can easily show that $L > 1 \implies L > ln(2)$. 

Interestingly, the sum $A$ can be “rearranged” (like $L$) to give any $x \in \mathbb{R}$.

>[!def|*]
>For a sequence $a_k$ of real numbers:
>- $\sum_{k=0}^\infty a_k$ is the infinite series associated with $a_k$.
>- $S_n = \sum_{k=0}^n a_k$ is the $n^{th}$ partial sum.
>- $S_n$ is the sequence of partial sums.

>[!def|*] Convergence
>The series $\sum_{k=0}^\infty a_k$ converges if the sequence of partial sums $S_n$ converges. A similar definition also holds for divergence.

>[!exm|*]
>Consider $\sum_{k=0}^\infty (-1)^{k+1} = 1-1+1-1+1-\dots$. We see: $$S_n = (1,0,1,0,\dots)$$Which clearly diverges.

>[!exm|*]
>Consider $\sum_{k=1}^\infty\frac{1}{k(k+1)}$. We can use partial fraction decomposition to get $\sum_{k=1}^\infty \frac{1}{k}-\frac{1}{k+1}$. Thus we have: $$S_n = \sum_{k=1}^\infty \frac{1}{k}-\frac{1}{k+1} = (1-\frac{1}{2})+(\frac{1}{2}-\frac{1}{3}) + \dots + \frac{1}{n} - \frac{1}{n+1} = 1-\frac{1}{n+1}$$We clearly see that $S_n \rightarrow 1$ as $n \rightarrow \infty$, thus $\sum_{k=1}^\infty\frac{1}{k(k+1)} = 1$.

>[!exm|*] Harmonic Series
>The harmonic series is given by $\sum_{k=1}^\infty \frac{1}{k}$. Note that the harmonic series diverges. To show this:
>- $S_1 = 1$
>- $S_2 = 1+\frac{1}{2}$
>- $S_4 = 1 + \frac{1}{2} + \frac{1}{3} + \frac{1}{4}$
>
>We notice that $\frac{1}{3} + \frac{1}{4} > \frac{1}{2}$ Thus $S_4 > 1 + \frac{2}{2}$.
>Notice that this process can be repeated for $S_5$ to $S_8$ and so on so forth. All the terms are greater than $\frac{1}{2}$. By induction, we have $S_{2^k} \ge 1 + \frac{k}{2}$. The sequence $1+\frac{k}{2}$ diverges, thus $S_n$ diverges. 
>(It takes around $10^{42}$ terms before $S_n > 100$)

>[!rmk|*] Geometric Series
>Consider $\sum_{k=1}^\infty ar^k$, this converges only for $r \in (-1,1)$. (Quiz Problem)

>[!theorem|*] 
>Let $a_k$ be a sequence of positive terms: $$\sum_{k=1}^\infty a_k \; \text{converges} \iff S_n \; \text{is bounded}$$This is a quiz problem. Use the [[Convergent Subsequences Theorem]] and the [[Monotone Convergence Theorem]]. 

>[!theorem|*]
>$$\sum_{k=1}^\infty a_k \; \text{converges} \implies a_k \rightarrow 0$$
>>[!claim|*]- Proof
>>`\begin{proof}` $\exists \; L \in \mathbb{R}: \; \forall \; \epsilon > 0, \; \exists \; N \in \mathbb{N}: \; |L-S_n| < \frac{\epsilon}{2} \; \forall \; n \ge N$.
>>Then $|a_{n+1}| = |S_{n+1} - S_{n}|$. As we know it converges, we have: $$=|S_{n+1}-S_n + L - L| \le |s_{n+1}-L| + |S_n - L| < \epsilon$$Which holds by the [[Triangle Inequality]].   
>> `\end{proof}`

>[!corollary|*] Divergence Criterion
>If $a_k$ does not converge to $0$, then $\sum_{k=1}^\infty a_k$ diverges. 

>[!theorem|*] Comparison Test
>Let $a_k \; \land \; b_k$ be [[Sequences]] with $0 \le a_k \le b_k \; \forall \; k \in \mathbb{N}$. Then:
>- $\sum_{k=1}^\infty b_k$ converges $\implies$ $\sum_{k=1}^\infty a_k$ converges.
>- $\sum_{k=1}^\infty a_k$ diverges $\implies$ $\sum_{k=1}^\infty b_k$ diverges.
>- If $a_k>0 \; \land \; b_k > 0 \; \forall \; k \in \mathbb{N}$: $\frac{a_k}{b_k} = L$. 
>	- If $L \in (0, \infty)$, then $\sum_{k=0}^\infty a_k$ converges $\iff$ $\sum_{k=1}^\infty b_k$ converges.
>	- If $L = 0$, then $\sum_{k=1}^\infty b_k$ converges $\implies$ $\sum_{k=1}^\infty a_k$ converges.
>	- If $L = \infty$, then $\sum_{k=1}^\infty b_k$ diverges $\implies$ $\sum_{k=1}^\infty a_k$ diverges.



























