>[!def|*] Topology
>Let $X$ be a set. A topology on $X$ is a collection of subsets of $X$, denoted $T$: 
>1. $\emptyset \; \land \; X$ are in $T$.
>2. Any finite intersection of sets in $T$ is in $T$.
>3. Any arbitrary union of sets in $T$ is also in $T$.
>
>We note:
>- If a set is in $T$, we call is an open set.
>- $(X,T)$ is called a topological space.

>[!exm|*] Topology
>Consider $X = \{1,2,3,4,5\}$. Then we can have: 
>- $T = \{\emptyset, X\}$ is a topology (called the trivial topology on $X$)
>- $T = P(X)$ is a topology (called the discrete topology on $X$)
>- $T = \{ \emptyset, \{1,2\}, \{1\}, \{2\}, X\}$ is a topology.
>
>Note: $P(X)$ is the power set of $X$. 

>[!def|*] Closed Sets
>Let $(X,T)$ be a topological space: $$A \subseteq X \; \text{is} \; \text{closed} \iff A^c \; \text{is} \; \text{open}$$

>[!rmk|*] On the Topic of Open and Closed Sets
>Closed and Open are not opposites. Sets can be open, closed, both or neither. An open and closed set is referred to as a clopen set.

>[!def|*] Equivalent definition for Topology
>Let $(\mathbb{R} ^d, \rho)$ be a [[Metric Space]]. Define $A \subseteq \mathbb{R}^d$ to be open if $\forall \vec x \in A, \exists \; r > 0 : B_r(\vec x) \subseteq A$. This is called the metric Topology. 
>>[!claim|*]- Proof that this is a Topology
>>`\begin{proof}`
>>**Property 1**: $\mathbb{R}^d$ is open, since $\forall x \in \mathbb{R}^d$ and every $r > 0$, $b_r(x) \subseteq \mathbb{R}^d$.
>>$\emptyset$ is open. To show this, suppose for contradiction that it is not, then $\exists x \in \emptyset$ so that $B_r(x)$ is not a subset of $\emptyset$, but this contradicts $\emptyset$ being empty. 
>>
>>**Property 2**: Without loss of generality, prove for two open sets $U,V$ that $U \cap V$ is open. To do so, if $U\cap V = \emptyset$, then it is open by **Property 1**. If not, then $\exists \; x \in U \cap V$, $\text{i.e}$, $x \in U$ and $x \in V$. 
>>Since $U$ is open, $\exists \; r_u > 0: B_{r_u}(x) \subseteq U$ and since $V$ is open, $\exists \; r_v >0: B_{r_v}(x) \subseteq V$. Let $r = min\{r_u, r_v\} \implies B_r(x) \subseteq U \; \land \; B_r(x) \subseteq V$. Thus $B_r(x) \subseteq U \cap V \; \land \; U \cap V$ is open.
>>
>>**Property 3**: Let $A = \cup_\alpha U_\alpha$, take $x \in A \implies x \in U_\alpha$ for some $\alpha$. Since $U_\alpha$ is open, $\exists \; r >0: B_r(x) \subseteq U_\alpha$.
>> `\end{proof}`

>[!proposition|*]- Let $A \subseteq \mathbb{R}^d$ be finite $\implies$ $A$ is closed $\land$ $A$ is not open
>*One can imagine $\mathbb{R}^2$ with select points in $A$, it is clear that a circle around those points would include other things, thus it is not open.*
>
>`\begin{proof}`We need to show both desired properties.
>
>**Not Open**: Since $A$ is finite, and $\forall r > 0$, $B_r(x)$ is infinite, $B_r(x)$ must contain $u \notin A \implies B_r(x) \not\subseteq A$.
>
>**Closed**: We need to show that $A^c$ is open. Let $y \in A^c$, pick: $$r = \text{min} \{ \rho(x,y): x \in A\}$$Then $B_{\frac{r}{2}}(y)$ does not contain any $x \in A$, thus $B_{\frac{r}{2}}(y) \in A^c \implies A^c$ is open. We conclude that $A$ is closed.  
>  `\end{proof}`

>[!proposition|*]- $B_r(x)$ is open $\land$ $B_r(x)$ is not closed
>*The idea is that for any ball of radius r, I can draw a smaller ball of radius $a<r$ that forms a new ball*
>
>`\begin{proof}` We show both properties hold:
>
>**Open**: Let $y \in B_r(x) \implies \rho (x,y) < r \implies \exists \; s>0: \rho (x,y) + s = r$. I.E, $s = r - \rho (x,y)$, define $B_S(y)$. We want to show $B_s(y) \subseteq B_r(x)$. Let $z \in B_s(y)$, then: $$\rho (z,y) \le \rho(z,y) + \rho (x,y)$$By the triangle inequality. Thus $$\rho (z,x) < s + \rho (x,y) = (r- \rho (x,y))+ \rho (x,y) = r$$thus $z \in B_r(x)$ and $B_s(y) \subseteq B_r(x)$.
>
>**Not Closed**: Quiz problem
> `\end{proof}`






