We are starting the last topic of this course.

>[!def|*] Power Series
>An infinite series of the form: $$\sum_{n=0}^\infty a_n(x-c)^n$$Where $x,c \in \mathbb{R}$ and $a_n$ is a sequence of numbers is called a Power Series.
>- We think of $c$ to be the “center” of the power series.

>[!exm|1]
>Consider: $$\sum_{n=1}^\infty \frac{x^n}{n}$$Clearly $c = 0$ and thus it is centered at the origin. Also: $a_n = \frac{1}{n}: n \in \mathbb{N}_+$. 
>
>Determine the values of $x$ for which the series converges pointwise and uniformly. 
>
>**Pointwise**:
>The form of the power series suggest that we will use a text. Specifically, we use the [[Ratio Test]]. Thus we look at: $$\lim_{n \rightarrow \infty} \left|\frac{x^{n+1}}{(n+1)} \cdot \frac{n}{x^n} \right| = \lim_{n \rightarrow \infty} \frac{n}{n+1}|x| = |x|$$Now if $|x| < 1$, then it is convergent by the [[Ratio Test]]. However, we must still investigate $|x| = 1$ as the ratio test is inconclusive here. Let us look at the cases:
>For $x = 1$: $$\sum_{n=1}^\infty \frac{1}{n} \rightarrow \infty \; \;\text{(It is the Harmonic Series)}$$For $x = -1$: $$\sum_{n=1}^\infty \frac{(-1)^n}{n} \; \text{is convergent} \; \; \;\text{(It is the Alternating Harmonic Series)}$$Thus: $$\text{Pointwise convergence for} \; x \in [-1,1)$$
>**Uniform**
>Now let us determine uniform convergence. To do so, we will use the M-Test. Take $r \in [0,1)$. Then: $$\left| \frac{x^n}{n} \right| = \frac{|x^n|}{n} \le \frac{r^n}{n}$$Let us take $M_n = \frac{r^n}{n}$. Now we check convergence: $$\sum_{n=1}^\infty M_n = \sum_{n = 1}^\infty\frac{r^n}{n}$$Which we know converges (see the ratio test above) for $r \in [0,1)$. Thus by the M-Test, we have uniform convergence for $x \in [-r,r]$. 
>

>[!exm|2]
>Consider: $$\sum_{n=o}^\infty n^2 \left(\frac{x^2}{2} \right)^n = \sum_{n=0}^\infty \frac{n^2}{2^n} x^{2n}$$
>Where it has terms: $$= 1 \cdot \left( \frac{x^2}{2} \right)  + 2^2 \cdot \left( \frac{x^2}{2} \right)^2 + 3^2 \cdot \left( \frac{x^2}{2} \right)^3 + \dots $$We note that we are “missing” the odd powers of $x$. We shall get back to this.
>**Pointwise**
>Again, we use the [[Ratio Test]]: $$\lim_{n \rightarrow \infty} \left|\frac{(n+1)^2 \left( \frac{x^2}{2} \right)^{n+1}  }{n^2 \left(  \frac{x^2}{2} \right)^n } \right| = \frac{x^2}{2}$$Clearly, we have pointwise convergence if $x \in (-\sqrt 2, \sqrt 2)$. Not we must examine the endpoints.
>For $x = \pm \sqrt 2$: $$\sum_{n \rightarrow 0}^\infty n^2 \left(  \frac{(\sqrt 2)^2}{2} \right)^n = \sum_{n=0}^\infty n^2$$Which clearly diverges. Thus $x \in (-\sqrt 2, \sqrt 2)$ means pointwise convergence.
>
>**Uniform**:
>Again, we use the M-Test. We consider $r = [0,\sqrt 2)$. Now: $$\left| n^2 \left(  \frac{x^2}{2} \right) ^n \right| \le n^2 \left(  \frac{r^2}{2} \right) ^n = M_n \; \; \forall x \in [-r, r] $$Clearly (from the calculations we did just above), $\sum_{n=0}^\infty M_n$ converges and thus for $x \in [-r, r]$, we have uniform convergence. 

You might notice that our series are uniformly convergent in the radius of convergence.

>[!theorem|1]
>Consider the power series: $$\sum_{n=0}^\infty a_n(x-c)^n$$and define: $$R = \frac{1}{\limsup_{n \rightarrow \infty} \sqrt[n]{|a_n}|}$$Where $R$ is called the Radius of Convergence. Note a few cases:
> - We define $R =\frac{1}{0}$ to mean $R = \infty$.
> - We define $R = \frac{1}{\infty}$ to mean $R = 0$.
> 
>Then we have:
>1. $R = 0$: The power series converges only for $x = c$.
>2. $0 < R < \infty$: The power series converges pointwise for $x \in (c-R, c+R)$, it diverges for $x \in (-\infty,c-R) \cup (c+R, \infty)$ and it converges uniformly on $[c-r,c+r]$ $\forall r \in [0,R)$. 
>3. $R = \infty$: The power series converges pointwise on $\mathbb{R}$, and uniformly on any interval of finite length.

>[!rmk|*] Hints to Prove the Theorem (Quiz Question Help)
>- For $R = 0$, if we look at the power series, clearly it does converge at $x = c$ as all the terms are $0$. But to prove $1$, we need to show convergence at $x=c$ and that it **diverges** for $x \ne c$. To prove this, we note the $\limsup$ is infinity. Thus the terms $\sqrt[n]{|a_n|}$ blow up (note the [[Root Test]] might be useful)

>[!exm|3]
>Again, we consider: $$\sum_{n=1}^\infty \frac{x^n}{n}$$Then: $$\frac{1}{R} = \limsup_{n \rightarrow \infty} \sqrt[n]{|a_n|} = \limsup_{n \rightarrow\infty} \left(  \frac{1}{n} \right) ^\frac{1}{n}$$This is an annoying limit. To solve it, let us introduce a a little “aside”.
>
>**Lemma**:
>We have that: $$\lim_{n \rightarrow \infty} n^\frac{1}{n} = 1$$`\begin{proof}`  
>Define $x_n = n^\frac{1}{n}-1$. Clearly (check yourself) that $x_n \ge 0$. Thus: $$(x_n+1)^n = n$$By the [[Binomial Expansion Theorem]], we have: $$(x_n+1)^n = \sum_{k=0}^n \left( \begin{array}{ccc}  n\\k  \end{array} \right) x_n^k -1^{n-k}$$Hence: $$(x_n+1)^n \ge \left( \begin{array}{ccc}  n\\2  \end{array} \right) x_n^2 = \frac{n(n-1)}{2}x_n^2$$Rearranging: $$0 \le x_n^2 \le \frac{2}{n-1}$$By the [[Squeeze Theorem]], $\lim_{n \rightarrow \infty} x_n = 0$. We conclude $\lim_{n \rightarrow \infty} n^\frac{1}{n} = 1$. 
>`\end{proof}`
>
>With the lemma, we conclude: $$\limsup_{n \rightarrow \infty} \left( \frac{1}{n} \right)^\frac{1}{n} = 1 $$

*Hints*
Use uniform Cauchy to prove M-test
