>[!rmk|*] Puzzle
>@ 11:00 am, I put two balls into a bag with labels $0,1$.
>(\*)Halfway to Noon, I double the number of balls in the bag and remove the lowest numbered ball. Repeat \*.
>How many balls are in the bag at noon?
>>[!rmk|*]- Solution
>>You really thought I would give you the solution huh?
>>

Cool, anyways, back to the course. 

>[!exm|*] Does $\sum_{k=1}^\infty \frac{1}{\sqrt k}$ converge?
>Recall the harmonic series. Since $k \ge \sqrt k \;\; \forall \; k \in \mathbb{N}$, we have $\frac{1}{k} \le \frac{1}{\sqrt k}$. We conclude $\sum_{k=1}^\infty \frac{1}{\sqrt k}$ diverges.

>[!exm|*] Does $\sum_{k=1}^\infty \frac{1}{2k+1}$ converge?
>We will again compare with the harmonic series. But since $2k+1 \ge k$, we cannot use the same comparison test. Instead, consider: $$2k+1 \le 2k+2 = 2(k+1)$$Since $\sum_{k=1}^\infty \frac{1}{2(k+1)} = \frac{1}{2} \sum_{k=1}^\infty \frac{1}{k+1}$ diverges, then the original series diverges.

>[!exm|*] Showing $\sum_{k=1}^\infty \frac{1}{k^2}$ converges.
>We will use the comparison test and compare it with $\sum_{k=1}^\infty \frac{1}{k(k+1)}$ which converges from a previous example. 
>Since $2k^2 \ge k^2+k \; \; \forall \; k \in \mathbb{N} \implies \frac{1}{k^2} \le \frac{2}{k^2+k}$. By the comparison test, our desired series converges. (It is bounded above by $2 = 2 \sum_{k=1}^\infty \frac{1}{k(k+1)}$).

>[!exm|*] Showing $\sum_{k=1}^\infty \frac{3}{2k^2-\sqrt k}$ converges.
>We will compare it with $\sum_{k=1}^\infty \frac{1}{k^2}$ which we know converges from the previous example. Now: $$\lim_{k \rightarrow \infty}(\frac{3}{2k^2-\sqrt k})(\frac{1}{k^2})^{-1} = \lim_{k \rightarrow \infty}( \frac{3k^2}{2k^2-sqrt k}) = \frac{3}{2}$$Since the limit is finite, our series converges.

The new stuff…

>[!def|*] Absolute Convergence
>A series $\sum_{k=1}^\infty a_k$ converges absolutely if $\sum_{k=1}^\infty |a_k|$ converges.

>[!def|*] Conditional Convergence
>A series converges conditionally if it does not converge absolutely.

>[!theorem|*]
>$\sum_{k=1}^\infty |a_k|$ converges $\implies$ $\sum_{k=1}^\infty a_k$ converges.
>>[!claim|*]- Proof
>>`\begin{proof}` Let $s_n = \sum_{k=1}^\infty a_k \; \land \; T_n = \sum_{k=1}^\infty |a_k|$. Since $T_n$ converges, it is Cauchy, and thus $\forall \; \epsilon >0, \; \exists \;N : |T_m-T_n| = \sum_{k=n+1}^\infty |a_k| < \epsilon$ if $m >n$. 
>>$\therefore$, for $m>n \ge N$, we have, by the [[Triangle Inequality]]: $$|S_n-S_m| = |\sum_{k=1}^\infty a_k| \le \sum_{k=1}^\infty |a_k| = |T_n - T_m| < \epsilon$$
>> `\end{proof}`

>[!theorem] Ratio Test
>Let $a_n$ be a sequence satisfying:
>- $\exists \; K \in \mathbb{N} : a_k \ne 0 \; \; \forall \; k \ge K$
>- $\lim_{k \rightarrow \infty} |\frac{a_{k+1}}{a_k}| = L \in \mathbb{R}$
>
>Then we have:
>- If $L < 1 \implies \sum_{k=1}^\infty a_k$ converges
>- If $L > 1 \implies \sum_{k=1}^\infty a_k$ diverges. 
>- If $L = 1 \implies$ nothing can be said.
>
>Proof is left as a quiz problem (as always).

The difference between this and the comparison test is that the ratio test only requires the given series.
