Solving a scientific or industrial problem usually involves mathematical analysis and/or simulation. In simulations. the key to reliable answers is to perform the experiment a large number of times or over a long period of time, whichever is applicable. Since doing this manually is impossible, computers are used. 

To simulate a problem that involves random phenomena, generating random numbers from the interval $(0,1)$ is essential. For example, to simulate a fair coin, we draw a random number from $(0,1)$. If that number lies somewhere in $(0,1/2)$, then the outcome is heads, and if it is in $[1/2,1)$, the outcome is tails. 

In real-world problems, choosing a random number from a given interval is **impossible**. To perform simulations, pseudorandom numbers are used instead. To generate $n$ *pseudorandom numbers* from a uniform distribution on an interval $(a,b)$, we take an initial value $x_0 \in (a,b)$, called the *seed*, and construct a function $\psi$ so that the sequence $\{x_1, x_2, \dots, x_n\} \subset (a,b)$ obtained recursively from $x_{i+1} = \psi(x_i)$ with $0 \le i \le n-1$ satisfies certain statistical tests for randomness (not discussed here). In a computer, any number generated by $\psi$ will be rounded to a certain number of decimal points. Thus $\psi$ can only generate a **finite** amount of numbers which means that at some point, some $x_j$ that had already been generated will be regenerated. As a consequence of the recursive nature of $\psi$, once that $x_j$ is repeated, a loop will form, effectively breaking the randomness of the generated numbers. Thus the goal of many is to increase the ceiling how many numbers $\psi$ can generate before $x_j$ is reached. 